# dSocial
### ***The Decentralized Social Network***
##### **Authored By:** Jared Rice Sr.
##### **Last Updated On:** 05-28-2020

**NOTE:** ***The need for another social network, namely a decentralized social network, may be questioned by many, due to the popularity of platforms like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and others. There are many inherent problems with these platforms, as well as a plethora of issues that have become very political over the last few years. I don't want to get into politics, although I do want to call out the unethical actions of the many software developers who work for these platforms, as well as the executives above them, for utilizing these platforms in many irresponsible ways.  For this reason, this whitepaper, different from any of my past whitepapers, will start off with my own personal protest. ***

## Protest
Centralized social media providers have become increasingly tyrannical and overly biased towards the views of a large and growing percentage of their users. That bias, due to the centralized control they have over their users, has in-turn motivated networks like Twitter and Facebook to censor many of their end-users for publishing content that its majority liberal-leaning workforce politically disagree with. Most recently, Twitter elected to place a fact-checker on Donald J. Trump's public postings, where a fact-checking module used biased and opinionated journalists from CNN as its cited sources. This turns technology into a weapon, which is currently being used by these networks to create misinformation campaigns where in this case, these campaigns are clearly being used to mislead US voters and interfere in US elections. This sort of behavior by Twitter is reckless, possibly illegal and completely unforgiveable. 

All politics aside, using software to control users psychologically, in order to censor their ideas or opinions, while attempting to alter their political or world views through nefarious misinformation campaigns, is not only completely unethical, it is highly irresponsible. What happened to our ethical standards as software developers? How can we trust companies like Facebook, Twitter and Google to ethically build AI-powered applications or even-worse, AI-powered machines, when we know from experience that they simply cannot be trusted? Elon Musk already warned against trusting someone like Mark Zuckerberg or Jack Dorsey with these sort of capabilities, simply calling it "dangerous", while also calling into question the ethics of some of these companies to begin with. Sadly, AI is already being used by these companies to exploit the privacy of their users in a plethora of ways. They do this with an ambition for world control and are destroying our democracy in the process [SCHE15]. This should also bring into question the politicians that support their existence in the first place nor should any of this be considered a conspiracy theory, considering all of the information that has been coming out in recent years about these big tech executives has proven to be true (please see Fabian Society in [GRIF10]). 

If history repeats itself, it is my fear that the internet giants of the centralized web will come together to form a "cartel" to create some sort of shared monopoly behind the scenes, just as Senator Nelson W. Aldrich and Paul M. Warburg secretly crafted the central bank cartel on Jekyll Island back in 1910, which would become known as the infamous Federal Reserve in 1913 [GRIF10]. Back then, banks came together to protect themselves from the growing influence of small, rival banks and it is my belief that as we expand a decentralized ecosystem like the decentralized web with more applications, disinformation campaigns will be launched by these so called "protectors of the public" so that their platforms can come together and fight off the oncoming threat decentralization poses to their existence. With that said, we designed the decentralized web, as well as dSocial, to resist these sort of attacks and rogue formations. 

That design is built around a truly digitized version of a meritocratic republic, where the majority of the people that use the network are in complete control via their abilities to vote on network changes or improvements and police the network as a whole, rather than it being policed by a politically biased workforce. While there are some semi-decentralized social networks out there like Steem, none of them are completely decentralized, where most of them depend on the HTTP protocol or centralized servers and domain names for some aspect of their operations. For this reason, networks like Gab were easily attacked and taken offline by the big tech cartel, due to their growing influence over conservatives and the droves of users that were leaving these network for the freedoms Gab provided. 

dSocial, as you will see in this paper, is built to scale the globe without centralized servers or centralized TLDs (top-level domain names) and is based entirely on peer-to-peer technologies like blockchain, the DPOS consensus algorithm and a Kademilia DHT-based storage network [RICE19A]. Consequently, dSocial is far more secure for its users when compared to centralized alternatives and is virtually impossible to seize or take offline. dSocial is being open sourced and poses a true threat to all centralized social networks beyond just the economic incentive given to dSocial's users for posting to its network. Instead of reshaping the nature of truth, as the centralized social networks of the Internet are taking part in today, dSocial is reinstating the freedoms and constitutional rights that its users truly deserve and expect.

It's time for ethical software developers to ban together, while putting all politics aside, to ethically develop technologies that benefits their end-users once again. Otherwise, the big tech cartel and the centralized web's regime will continue to attack our freedoms through misinformation campaigns and the constant attack of free thought and ideas, which will ultimately result in an enslaved society, hell-bent on socialism, where all of its users are in-turn censored and controlled by the swamp itself. This means abandoning these centralized tyrants and their development platforms, in order to build our own decentralized alternatives.

This paper is intended to start a decentralized revolution.

## Abstract
dSocial is the world's first truly decentralized social network that (a) is impossible to seize, hack or exploit; (b) is not reliant on centralized servers or domains; (c) is not completely reliant on blockchain technology; (d) pays its users for their interactions; (e) is protected against illegal or inappropriate content by a meritocratic republic formed and voted on by its users; (f) is completely censorship-resistant; (g) is infinitely scalable.

These features are made possible through dSocial's integration with various peer-to-peer technologies and protocols, namely [Arisen](https://github.com/arisenio/technical-whitepaper), [dWeb](https://github.com/distributedweb/whitepaper), [dRegister](https://github.com/distributedweb/ddatabase-whitepaper) and [dAppDB](https://github.com/distributedweb/dappdb-whitepaper). dSocial is a Twitter-like social networking platform that has a similar feature set and user experience, including posting, post commenting, re-posting, post interaction (i.e likes, etc.), direct messaging, user subscriptions (following), user blocking, and the ability for users to earn various decentralized, cryptographic currencies like "RIX" and "LIKE" for their interactions. In the future, dSocial will be integrated with a decentralized bank known as [dBnk](https://dbnk.network) which will allow users to earn for their interactions with many popular, decentralized cryptographic currencies, including Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and many others. 

dSocial represents the software of the future, one where freedom is a catalyst and the single greatest feature for its users. It also brings to life the ideologies of a constitutional republic, where users are once again in control of everything from their digital existence on the network, to the data they create. dSocial represents the idea, that if we're able to build more decentralized applications like dSocial across a multitude of industries, that the web can once again be free for its users and a place for us to grow our businesses and safely share our personal lives with those we love and care about. It's a future we're currently developing and a system that I will explain thoroughly throughout this paper.
